---
layout: post
title: "Week 11 : Cathedral and Bazaar" 
---

### Differences in the models of development 

The goals of both the cathedral model and the bazaar model are ultimately the same, which is to make the software product great. The two models are just different means to reach it. I think the lesson that stood out the most to me is "Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow." The point being that different users/co-developers have different needs for the project, inspect the project from different perspectives, and run the project on different hardware and OS. This means that they will encounter different bugs and issues that would have never came up for the small group of "wizards", that then can be fixed. This is one main advantage of the bazaar model, but the idea is often used by the cathedral models too. Many proprietary projects using the Cathedral Model will have test versions given to different experts to test out the software. 

<!--more-->

### How is AI involved

With the rapid development of AI and AI agents, now they can act as the ultimate "lone wizard". They can code based on whatever instruction you prompt them. However, these AI systems cannot identify and solve issues on its own, that's why I still call them the "lone wizard". This fundamental weakness needs the bazaar model to ensure that the project development in on the right track. These AI systems can also flood the code base with how fast they code, so there needs to be enough human inspection to make sure that the code they submit are not security flawed or malicious in any way. 

### Progress on Pandas

Our group (including myself) has multiple pull requests open that have not been reviewed nor merged by the maintainers. I'm also inspecting the project for more issues that I can work on. 

### Other groups 

I feel like all the other groups are making great progress. One thing I really admire is how different groups focus on different parts of the project based on their respective strengths. 