---
layout: post
title: "Week 5 : Choosing a Project & small contributions" 
---

## Small Contributions

I've made contributions to OpenStreetmap and Wikipedia. For OpenStreetmap, I updated a closed restaurant with it's replacement restaurant, and deleted a food court that was closed that were next to my dorm. The closed drestaurant was one of my favorite and it was really sad to see it move somewhere else. This was my proudest change because it help others who wants to find a place to eat around the area. For wikipedia, I've updated some equipment lists with new acquisitions and more credible sources. The biggest challenge I faced was finding a reliable sources to support my changes, so I can ensure I'm not spreading misinformation.  

I've also found a broken link to the CAS academic policy on the course homepage, and created an issue on it in the github repo. 

## Choosing a project 

I want to contribute to a project that I'm actively using or have used in the past. Then I'm somewhat familiar with its functionality, and knowing that I'm using a project that I've contributed to is a great sense of accomplishment. However, while looking at Beyond-All-Reason, a real time strategy game I've played, I don't think it's a good project because its written in a language that I don't know (Lua). Therefore I think I'll want to contribute to a project written in a language that I'm familiar with (Python, Java, C), which shouldn't be that hard to find since they are the most common languages. 